OK. This interview is that of participant number 70, on August 30, 2019 and Sofia is the interviewer. It's funny, like I'm a journalist or something [laughs] they forced me to record, so good [laughs]. And you are not working, because you are here at home, right? 
Yes, I do not work. 
OK. 
And the children are already-- 
Yes, children are now in school. 
In school, good. And they were all summer or just entered? 
No, they were here with me all summer and right now they went to class again. 
OK. Well, first, thanks for participating. Do you have any questions before starting or--? 
Well, no, even now, no. 
So, I know we've talked a little bit about that, but, you can talk to me who lives, say who you live with. 
Yes, I live with my husband and with my two boys, a girl and a boy. 
Okay, and how old are they? 
The girl is eight years old and the boy is four years old. 
Okay, perfect. And apart from them, who with the most important people in your life? 
Well, my mom, my brothers, my family, yes. 
Okay, and they live here? 
Yes, I do have some relatives still here. 
Do they live near or--? 
A little, not much, but yes. 
OK. And tell me a little more about-- more with your mom, she told me. 
Yes, I have my mother, my brothers, my father now I do not have it, he passed away a long time ago, and yes, here they live near, not very close, but yes. 
But at least you can see them and-- 
Yes, I can see them from time to time. 
Okay, and do your children have cousins ​​too? 
Yes, they also have cousins, they have their uncles, they also have their grandparents on their father's side here, but they are not very close, they are a little retired, but yes, from time to time we can go see them, yes. 
Okay, that is, close in terms of distance, not as emotionally. 
Do not. 
OK. And who do you talk to when you have to make an important decision in your life? 
Well, with my partner, it's the main one. 
OK. 
To make decisions with my partner. 
Yes, it makes sense. And how long have you been with him? 
Already ten years, yes. 
Okay, good. So, let's talk a little about health-related experiences before your pregnancy, like in the twelve months before you get pregnant. Ever before getting pregnant was the doctor in the year before? 
Of any disease or--? 
Yes, of anything, yes. 
Well, no, not before. 
And that could be like going to the emergency room, going to the doctor, anything. 
No, no, no, I did not go. 
OK. And then when was the last time you had a medical visit before pregnancy? 
Well, it will have been a year, but it was with the gynecologist, as if the check that is made of the woman, is the only thing I sometimes go to, but not like that. Right now of some disease or some condition like that, no, no emergencies, nor the hospital either. 
Okay, then how often did I go to the gynecologist before--? 
Every year, once a year, yes. 
Okay And what clinic did he go to? 
I went to the Georgetown Women's Center, I don't know how it is said, from here of the woman's, I don't know what that name is said, the one of-- I don't remember what the hospital is called, it's the one of-- no, I don't remember [laughs] what is the name of the hospital, the one here in Georgetown. Well, it's been the clinic of [inaudible] but; that is, not in the hospital, hospital, but in a clinic that is next to the hospital, but I don't remember what they call it. 
But is it for women's issues? 
Yes, as related to women, the annual check-up as well. 
If it is okay; that is, we can surely find it there, but what do you think of the medical care you received? 
Well, I've always been-- I mean, when I go they serve me well, they receive me well, just sometimes what I do battle a little is like sometimes when they say they make this income with your husband , or well in this case my husband who is the one who works, sometimes it is when we battle a little, for the same reason that we do not have, no - sometimes we cannot pay what we have for his income from him; sometimes not-- [that's where we sometimes fight] to receive medical attention for the same reason that we have no medical insurance to be checking, but we do. Until that the times that I have had to go, that they have attended me, because they have attended me well, I feel that they have attended me well, they have paid me the attention that I-- that is, when I explain something or They give me an answer that I feel satisfied sometimes when I go to appointments. 
And what else do you like about attention? 
Well; that is, they do pay attention to you, they listen to you, they give you some question that one has they answer you, they try - that is, I think they try to answer what they see that one needs from this one - well yes, to me until that time I have not had a problem, that I say that they have not attended to me, that they do not pay attention to me, no. 
But do they speak Spanish like--? 
Yes, well sometimes I try to talk to me - if there is no one to talk to me, they try to find someone who speaks Spanish, but always yes, there has been someone who speaks Spanish. 
With the person, not by phone or something but a person? 
If a person. 
And he attends to me told me that the gynecologist or--? 
Yes, when I go to the gynecologist, it's when-- well, she speaks Spanish, when I'm going to check, she speaks to me in Spanish. 
Okay, and is it the one that serves you? 
Yes. 
OK. And he is telling me a little of the income, that-- to see if I understood correctly, as you with the income you have are unable to pay or force you to pay more than you can, it is not that you did not leave. But sometimes that is what sometimes, we fight as to-- when we do that-- if when they ask you to have an appointment before they give you an appointment you have to make your income list to see how much is the limit that you can pay. Sometimes what happens is that sometimes my husband can earn some time, a few months he can earn well, sometimes he can earn less and sometimes it is what makes it difficult for us to be paying for what-- when I get an appointment I have to Going or sometimes with my children, that is what sometimes I struggle a little so that they can have one-- if I like a doctor's check something like that. OK. Let's talk a little more about health insurance and everything, but I know what I already understand. They ask for income how monthly? Or the income of the year? Monthly Monthly, okay. And that can vary? Yes. Of course it would be difficult, right? Because you don't know the next month you pay. It will be the same again, but. Sure, yes, yes. And how did you find your gynecologist? Or how did you find the clinic? From my sister-in-law, from a relative she was the one who gave me the address, and where I could go. OK. Yes. And how long ago did you find that clinic? It's been that since I had my second baby, almost four years ago. OK. Yes. Are there other factors that contributed to your decision to go to that clinic? I have always met more women friends and they have also told me that they serve you well, that is, they also speak Spanish there. And so for them because of me and my friends who heard that they also go and so on. That treat them well. OK. If it makes sense. Have you ever had trouble finding someone to see you as a doctor, or a place to go? No, I am alone, I have fought for myself. Find a doctor, something to be treated. And before he went to another clinic or has he always been to that one? No. Long before with my first daughter I went to a clinic in Tampa too. But it was difficult for me later, it was a little harder for me to go there and it was easier for me to go to [inaudible] Why is it closer? Yes. OK. Is there anything that would have made the experience of finding your clinic, is your doctors better? What if I have done something? 
What if there was something that would have improved the experience of looking for your suppliers? Like--? He told me that because of his sister-in-law and his friends he found him, but as if for example, if they had given him information. I don't know, how is there anything that would have helped you? 
Yes, it would have been good too, because like me with the internet and all that, one can already find anything, but if I also had no idea that there was another clinic like that there. Even as I say, until in talks, in all that comes from my family, friends I learned from the clinic. 
Was there an instance where you could not receive the medical care you thought you needed? 
Nerd. 
He has never had to go, but he has not gone for something, like maybe I save the money or I better not go because I am not so bad, nothing like that? 
Do not. 
OK. When do you need to go, can you? 
Yes. When I go and not [inaudible] 
OK. Whenever you need attention if you go. 
Yes. 
OK. Very good. And now we will return a little to the issue of payment and what was the assistance it receives. So, it can be the following insurance: private insurance, insurance that you have through a job, Medicaid or any other program that helps pay for the costs of care. Before you get pregnant, how do I pay for your medical care? 
For my husband, that is what he works for, it was the way we can pay as if to say the first date, which I was. Because if at that time I still didn't have any insurance and for my first appointment I had to pay, but at least my husband comes from his job, it was the way I could pay the first appointment. 
The first prenatal appointment. 
Yes. 
Had he received some help for his attention or not for that appointment? 
Not for there no. 
OK. When are you going to the gynecologist, did you pay? 
Yes. Well I had the when I did that the [inaudible] of the income in [inaudible] I did it and they make you like you're at level one, two, three, I think up to level five. And I don't remember that story, it's at level four, but that's what I tell him, when I'm at level four, maybe he can tell me you have to pay a bit or so. But sometimes when I have another appointment, sometimes I can pay it, sometimes not, for the same as for my husband's income. 
That is, they put you on a level and remain on that level. 
Yes. 
And then the income changes and I can already get to pay, or sometimes not. Sometimes, it is what sometimes also stops me when I have to go see the doctor. 
And level one are the people who can pay less? That is, do the people who have less income have or the people who have more income? 
It is the one between the lowest level is when you pay less or sometimes do not pay. 
OK. And level five are the people who can pay? 
And already pay a little more. 
OK. I think it's like a [foreign] as they say how. 
Something like that. 
That the payment depends on the income and is a program of [foreign] 
Yes. They were carrying that [foreign]. 
I think [foreign] has something similar. But I didn't know about that [foreign] program. Then, there was some time that he had medical insurance or not. 
I do not, I have never had medical insurance simply when I am pregnant, which is when I have received - once I received Medicaid and now in the latter and in the latter now this third pregnancy I have received 
The help of [foreign] prenatal, and they are the only ones I have had, other medical insurance I have not had. 
And then, the first pregnancy was medicaid, and then [foreign]. 
Yes. I think ... I don't know if you say [foreign] or [foreign], because there are times that there are about two that look alike, but I don't remember. 
Medicare is for the elderly, and I get Medicaid. 
So, Medicaid for-- 
In Texas I think it's for pregnant mothers. 
Yes once I did and this last two I have [foreign] prenatal. 
OK. Let's talk a little more about that too. So, now he tells me he had [foreign] prenatal but not on the first date, how did he get it? How did he get? How was the process? 
The process was when I spoke the number of 211 and asked them if they could please send me the form to fill out to see if I could become eligible for [foreign] or medicaid and that's how I had the [foreign], that is, the process. They asked me for my husband's income, as he is the only one who works. Complete the form. Nothing else is what I did not understand there because at first they told me that if I was illegal, how do you say? 
Legal resident? 
Yes, then they told me who had been my sponsor, and I already told them and it was the way I was sending them-- I don't know why, I didn't understand why, they asked me for the name of my sponsor and who sponsored me here when I [inaudible] here. 
For the visa. 
Yes. So, it was the way I think-- I mean, I sent them everything and I'm sending them all the paperwork of income and all that, it was the way they accepted me in [foreign]. 
And did you have to send visa sponsor papers or not? That is-- 
Yes. 
Yes? 
Yes, like his insurance - that is, his insurance number, his heels, that if he worked, what properties he had. But since he had already passed away, that it is my dad who sponsored me, then I sent them the death certificate, which is said to be— 
That he died.  
That he passed away [laughs]. And yes, that's how I've been through things like that so that I can have medical insurance, and even that was given to me.  
The [foreign].  
Yes, the [foreign].  
Because you are a legal resident.  
Sure. And they explained why they didn't give you Medicaid and why they gave you [foreign]?  
No no no. They did not tell me. Nothing more simply, when I spoke to know if I had been eligible, for the same reason that I worried because I was pregnant and wanted medical attention to continue with my monthly check-up. Then, they just told me that-- sometimes they sent me letters and told me that I had not been eligible for Medicaid. And after a while I kept talking and kept talking and so, to ask they told me what I needed like this, like that, things, paperwork, and they asked me one thing and another, and they told me last that they had been eligible for prenatal [foreign] and it’s the way I even have [foreign] [laughs] right now.  
And had he called 211 before his first date or after?  
After I left my first date, then, it was when I started talking.  
And who gave him the number or how did he know what to call?  
Well, that of 211 since I was pregnant, since my first pregnancy, with my first daughter, since then I know that it is the number to speak to ask for some help from something, from [foreign] or [foreign], they say many things with The ones that can help you.  
As social benefits.  
Yes Yes.  
And one thing, when they gave him [foreign] they made him choose what we call a [foreign]? That is, did you choose between [foreign] or as an insurance company or not?  
No, even that is - well, when they already tell you - when I choose so they tell you that you were eligible if [foreign] or Medicaid, is when they tell you, then you have to talk to choose the medical plan, in what plan you want to be, like Molina and [foreign].  
Which?  
[foreign]  
[foreign], aha, aha. Already after they tell you that you are eligible for some insurance, they are the ones that I know you can choose from and I chose any one of them two for them-- that is, as I imagine they are the ones that help you to be in a medical plan for all your labor and all that, the benefits that Molina gives you and the benefit that your own plan gives you. And I've always chosen the [inaudible] I've never tried with another, always— 
And how did you decide to choose [foreign]?  
Well, that too since my first pregnancy - my family, as they have also said that they have been with him, so I decided too. And since then I have not left, I have not tried another, it is the same.  
And what did you think? 
Also well, I have not had any problem that it cannot be taken care of or something. 
They accept him in his clinic. 
Yes, they have accepted him at the clinic where I go. 
Is it since your second time you have Medicaid or since--? 
Yes, I have prenatal Chip since my-- 
Sorry, Chip. 
Since my second date. 
And how long was the process of applying for Medicaid delayed and after knowing that he was not eligible and receiving Chip and everything? 
Maybe it was a month. Like a month, yes. 
And they sent you a letter that you had not been eligible for Medicaid? 
Yes, I sometimes talked and they told me. I had already spoken and I already knew before the letter arrived, but then I received the letter and they had already told me it was no longer - yes, to confirm that I was not eligible for Medicaid or for Chip; but for Medicaid I was not eligible but for Chip, yes. 
And they never explained why they needed the sponsor information from their papers? 
Well, no, I simply sent them theirs and well-- yes, I never asked why, because that made me strange, because I never-- well since my first pregnancy I have been with my husband and He is always the one who has me-- for his income he is always the only one who has-- and for now, this was what was strange to me, that they had never asked me for the name of my sponsor and I had to give them information. 
And that you have been here for a long time. 
Yes [laughs]. 
Not that it is newcomer or anything. 
No, I have a lot of time here. 
Because his first daughter was born here too. 
Yes. 
Sure. Yes, I miss [laughs]. 
Yes, it seemed strange to me [inaudible], because yes even my husband told me: Why do they ask you that? If I have always been the one who sends the information of mine, that I am the one with you, the one who pays income to the house. 
As he is from his family, let's say that-- 
Yes. And this time it was, I don't know [laughs]. 
Anything else you would like to mention about [foreign] 's medical plan? What do you think of the plan? 
No, even that since the first time I have it, that I met him since my first daughter, who is now eight years old 
So, it's the only one I've used and I've never tried another, but for me it's been good, because always-- well, I've never had any problems, I've been fine with that plan, they've never put me like an excuse that, "now he won't be able to have his date, because something like that", no, everything has been fine. 
And does it have any benefit other than being able to go to the clinic, like prenatal classes or something? 
No, not me, something else not. 
No, he just goes to the clinic and-- 
And now, for my checkups every month, my pregnancy and not something else. 
OK. And let's see, then, for this pregnancy you go to the same gynecologist you used to go to? 
Yes, with this third pregnancy it's the same gynecologist I went to with the second pregnancy, it's the same, well, I liked how she treated me, because I've heard comments that-- well, like a woman friend mine that tells me no, that she did not like how she was, how she treated her, I do not know, but what I say, "well, I do not know, I liked it, I had no problem, no they have treated me badly, they have not left me so they have not given me my appointment. " 
And what problem did your friend have, what did she say? 
Well, I don't know, she said she had problems with her first pregnancy, that-- no, with her-- I don't know if it was her third pregnancy too or-- and that she had had complications from her first date, that she had gone with a check that he had done, that the doctor told him that he was going to bleed a little, but that according to me I think he hurt her and that he lost his baby and well a little yes I got scared, that is, that did scare me, but, until that I have not-- well, I do not know if it was also true of her, because sometimes she may have lying lies, she may have said yes or no, that it was true, but that was the problem that she, who had had supposedly affected him and that he had lost his baby, from that appointment that had gone from the check-up he had made for his first months, but no, I even stay with her, I have not had any problem with her, and no more was the only case I heard that happened, but-- 
And you decided to continue with her. 
Yes, I continued with her, until now I am still with her and well, I say I have done well. 
And during her second pregnancy, how did she find her? Or were you assigned to the clinic or did you choose it or how was it? 
No, I chose her, I chose the clinic and I chose her for the same thing as-- for my wife, that she had already gone. 
With her. 
Yes, with her, and she told me that apart from speaking Spanish, one can communicate better with her, she gives you a better explanation and yes, I decided to try to be with her, try to see how she treated me. 
And the deal how is it? 
Well, I say I liked it, there is nothing I say that I do not like, because because it is so or not, I liked everything, since I go with her I liked her treatment. 
Sure, because he went on with her, right? It makes sense. 
Yes. 
OK. And let's see, we are going to do something that is like drawing a little when things have happened, as if to orient us a little, so, do I want to draw or draw? 
Better you [laughs]. 
OK. 
Yes please. 
Because this helps us, when did you know I was pregnant? 
Right now of this last pregnancy? I knew I was pregnant in the month of-- well I already gave me an idea, like in the month of January or February, I already imagined that I was pregnant. 
Did you do the test? 
Yes, it was when I went to the clinic and that was where-- well I already sensed, but that was where they confirmed that yes, if I was pregnant, I went to the women's clinic in Georgetown. 
And that is where they attend it too--? Have you been treated throughout pregnancy? 
Yes, since the first day I already sensed I was pregnant, since then I have gone. 
And they told him how many weeks he was? 
Yes, at that time I had been told that I already had the month, like a month. 
And after that it was that he applied to Medicaid and then to Chip, right? 
Yes. 
Was it like in February or March? 
Yes, I asked them to send me a form to fill it out, to see if I was eligible for Medicaid or for Chip and then it was when they told me that I had not been eligible for Medicaid, but for Chip. 
And when did they give Chip? Do you remember what month it was? 
I was told that I think coverage began on March 1, if I remember correctly. 
And in the clinic they helped you apply Chip and Medicaid or did you do it on your own? 
No, I did it on my own. 
And they gave him information on the subject? 
Like--? 
As in the clinic, as they explained that he could-- 
Yes, at the clinic, the lady who is like this outside told me there, she said that she could if she wanted to, she said: You can try to apply to see if they can help you in some of the Medicaid or Chip insurances, and yes, since That day she told me, yes. 
But they don't help you? They just told him he could call. 
No, they didn't help me, he simply told me that, that is, as if he wanted me to apply on that, he would talk and I did. 
And when do you expect to give birth? 
They gave me the date for November 18. 
And have you been seeing your gynecologist every month since February? 
Yes, since then; from the first date, yes; I have not stopped going. 
And have you had to go for something else to a specialist or some other--? 
No, not even now. 
Do not? 
I have not had any problems, no complications, everything has been fine, so I have not gone to any other appointment. 
And before February, how had it been last year that I had gone to the gynecologist, in 2018 
[inaudible] was it? 
Yes, yes [inaudible] yes I went. 
OK. What do you think--? We can put more here, no problem, but-- What do you think of the location of your clinic? From the distance of the house from all that. 
Even that makes me a little - it's very like this, exaggerated, withdrawn, but a little like that. 
How much does it get to arrive? 
If there is not much traffic about 20, 25 minutes. But if there is traffic, then, half an hour, a little more. 
And do you make appointments when there is no traffic or not? 
Yes, I almost always try to do it-- well, early there is traffic, but I try more or less a schedule that I already know more or less that there is not much traffic, try to make appointments early so I can come and go. 
And isn't there a clinic closest to you? 
Well, even that, maybe here in Jaca [inaudible] is the most--it's a little closer but there, if I've never been there either, I've never been there. I've never treated a doctor, nor in [inaudible] either. In [inaudible] yes, my first pregnancy was in [inaudible] but it's almost the same distance from-- Well, maybe it's a little closer, here in [inaudible] to [inaudible]. Well, since I've had my second pregnancy, I forced myself to go to [inaudible]. 
Because of her sister-in-law and what her friends said? 
Yes. 
Okay. For your first date, how long did you have to-- to get it out? When you told me it was February that you imagined you were pregnant. 
I didn't last long, until that I didn't last long. I don't remember well if it would be like in a week or two to go to the appointment. 
Okay, what did you think of the waiting time? 
Yes, it was a little bit like far away [laughs]. Well, when you want to know yes or no, well, you want to know soon enough. But, sometimes, they also say, because sometimes there aren't any closer or sometimes the doctor isn't there, they're on vacation or something like that happens. But well, that's not too far away, nor too [inaudible] too close to make the appointment. 
But isn't tomorrow and it wasn't a month if not--? 
Yes. 
And if they let you make the appointment with the same doctor, with the one you want? 
Yes. 
Okay, have you ever been told that you have to make the appointment with someone else or never? 
No. I've never been told that. You can tell me the doctor is not going to be there for a day or so, but if you like it we can give it to you for a day that she is going to be there, but they never tell me that I am going to give you another doctor or not. 
And how is the process of making appointments at that clinic? 
I have to speak to the number of the clinic, the lady who answers me already I say that if you can give me an appointment and you can tell me what have such appointments as well as such tell them and such hours what I would like, at what hours, what day, so. 
Okay, what do you think of the process? 
Well, that's fine with me, too, so you fight hard enough to get an appointment, just because it takes a little while, it gives you a little more time away, than you'd like it to be a little sooner but-- 
How did it happen to you during this pregnancy? Did you have to wait a little longer? 
Not right now, not until now. 
Are you scheduled for an appointment when--? When you are in the appointment, do you schedule the appointment? 
Yes, they give me another appointment. 
And have you had to go outside of those scheduled appointments for something or nothing? 
No, not now either, no. I haven't been there. 
How do you contact your doctor or the clinic if you have any questions? 
I'm talking to the clinic number. And that's how I can communicate with the people who are there. With the doctor, with her, I have never communicated like this, maybe, I think, that if I have some question or some doubt I can speak to her there to the clinic but maybe they can say to me "the doctor is such a day, she wants an appointment to come to speak with her", or like that, but I have never spoken with her by telephone, simply, nothing more with those that are in the office to answer the calls. 
What if they return her calls and answer her? 
Yes. 
Okay. So, she said she was about a month old when she found out she was pregnant, right? 
Yes. 
More or less. 
Yes, when I went to confirm yes, I had already been told that I was, I think, one month old. 
And you wanted to be pregnant when you found out? 
[laughs]. Yes, I did want to have another baby. 
Yes? I mean, had they planned it? 
Yes. 
Okay, so you were also one month old when you had your first prenatal visit? 
Yes, I had the month when-- 
The month when-- when he found out and it was also his first date. 
Yes. 
How many providers - or as health workers - how many people have treated you differently during your pregnancy to date? 
Well, just now, Dr. Kelly; and as for the fact that you have to be doing check-ups, she sent me to one -- she was going to send me to [inaudible] to get an ultrasound to confirm that everything was okay, nothing more than when I spoke -- she gave me a number, they talked to me, she was going to schedule me an appointment and they said, "They're going to talk to you that day. Then, I was waiting for the call and they did talk to me, they told me if I wanted to go until [inaudible] but there I am a little withdrawn. Then, they told me that the closest options were here in [inaudible] and that's where I'm going right now, where they're doing ultrasounds to find out how my baby is doing. 
And who does the ultrasounds? 
She's a doctor but I don't remember her name right now. 
No problem, but did she introduce herself as a doctor? 
Yes, she is the doctor. 
And does she explain how she is doing during the ultrasound, that is, does she explain what is happening? 
Those are the other things she does, she doesn't speak Spanish [laughs], she does try to tell me -in English- she tells me one or other little things, but when she finishes doing the ultrasound she sends someone who speaks Spanish and says to me: "look at this happened today, it's okay or so", or they saw something like this that wasn't right; but, it is-- they are the only ones I have seen, the doctor who is now carrying my pregnancy and now the one here from [inaudible] which is the one who is doing the ultrasounds for me. 
And what do you think of this process of her going out and then sending someone to explain in Spanish? 
Well, that's fine with me, nothing more than because sometimes since--like sometimes when you want the doctor who treats you to tell you exactly right, well, what's going on, but well, on the one hand I also understand because I understand English, well, I don't--I do understand one thing or another, but I don't. I don't understand that. But it's okay that I have someone like that who tells you to look, the doctor said this like this. Well, not to come out [inaudible] just like that. 
And if you have questions, how do you do it? 
Well, then, because there the lady also says to me: "Do you have any questions?" and I say yes, I say no and she's the one who asks me the questions and I imagine she's the one who goes and tells the doctor that it's what I had some doubt or something. 
And is she an interpreter or is she like a nurse or someone? 
I imagine she's like an interpreter because I don't think she's a doctor. 
Okay, but has she ever presented herself as--? 
No, she never told me if I was an interpreter or a doctor. 
I didn't know if it was like they were sending a nurse who works there or someone, that is, a receptionist or if they had an interpreter. 
Maybe it's an interpreter. I think it's an interpreter. 
But she's not during, but comes in later? 
No, it's not during the ultrasound, it comes in after the doctor has left and they leave me there waiting for a moment and says. After the doctor leaves, she comes in. Then about ten, 15 minutes. 
How interesting. 
[laughs]. Yes, she comes in. 
Because sometimes people who are interpreters are there at the same time, they interpret at the same time. 
And they're telling you what the doctor is saying. But no, she comes in after the doctor leaves. 
Okay. [laughs]. We talked a bit, but did she get her first prenatal visit as soon as she wanted? 
Well, yes, I even say yes, like sometimes because it takes a little bit of days, but yes. 
I mean, she would have liked it, so I understand - she said - she would have liked it earlier because she wanted to know but it wasn't that it happened either. 
Not long, no. 
Okay. And in--? Because these are questions if you didn't--what would have helped you start prenatal care when you wanted to, but you said it was when you were given the appointment. 
Yes. 
Okay, and how do you get to your prenatal visits? 
How did it get there? How do I get there or...? 
Yes. 
Well, me with my vehicle, with-- yes, staff, my vehicle. 
Okay, and how long does it take to get there? 
About 25 to 30 minutes. If there is a lot of traffic I take a little longer, but if not, I go a little longer with more time to at least get to my appointment on time. 
Are you going alone or are you accompanied? 
At the beginning when I started I took my two children because they weren't in school, but now that they're in school I'm going alone. 
Okay, did transportation ever prevent you from showing up for visits? 
Not until now. 
Okay, why do you have two cars? 
Yes, my husband's car and the one I have right now out here. 
Okay, and since you became pregnant with this baby have you used [inaudible] services for yourself? 
No. No, I haven't-- Right now from this first pregnancy I haven't even applied to see if I'm eligible for [inaudible]. Nor since the second pregnancy have I not either. 
No, ever? 
No. 
And why? 
I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. It's just that sometimes I say: well, if I struggle, sometimes, for--a little bit to catch [laughter] the [foreign] or the [foreign] I say, well, maybe I'm not eligible for [inaudible]. No, I don't try to do it and better, then I say, I better stay that way because I prefer not to have problems like that, that I lose the [inaudible] or something for something. And no, I don't apply for that. 
Okay, but there was, yes, I thought about it, because yes, then I hear comments that tell you that they help with cereals, cheese, milk and so on, a little bit of vegetables, fruit, but we haven't tried, I haven't tried that. 
And it is above all because he has had difficulties to register and does not want to risk his insurance. 
Yes, I don't want-- I'd rather, I mean, as long as I have the coverage to have my baby, well, I say, I'm better off, with that I'm fine, I'm already [foreign], I'm saying, "that's better". 
Okay, and have you eaten less than you thought you should, because there wasn't enough money to buy food? 
Well, so far I haven't had any problems, I mean, I don't say I'm overweight either, but I'm short on food, not right now. 
Okay. And apart from your doctor, who helped you with this pregnancy? 
Well, nobody, nothing else. 
Like a birth attendant, a midwife, a birth partner. 
No, no, no one. 
No one, okay. And have you attended prenatal classes? 
No. 
Have you been offered the opportunity, that is, have you been given the opportunity to attend prenatal classes or--? 
No, I hadn't even heard of that. 
No? 
No. 
Sometimes they do classes, don't they, or you've always gone to your appointments alone, right? 
Yes. 
Sometimes I also think they make group appointments, where several women go with the doctor at the same time and-- 
No, I haven't heard of that. 
Okay. And let's see, from the beginning of this pregnancy, that I know it's your third pregnancy, what have been your resources for learning about the pregnancy, the part and the period after giving birth? 
Well, no, I haven't. 
Resources 
No. 
Did you mention the internet before, do you sometimes look for things or...? 
Well, yes, with the Internet sometimes for some doubt that I say I have about pregnancy, as a strange thing that I--on the Internet is where I put and say so, whatever I want to look for and is where sometimes I have an explanation, although sometimes they also say to me: "no, the Internet does not believe everything it tells you, because not everything is true, sometimes," and yes. 
Of course. 
But something else, as well as a person or something, no. 
Or a class or something, no. 
No. 
Okay, and what kind of information would you like to have received from your health care provider or doctor that you didn't receive? 
That you didn't receive, well, not until now. 
Nothing, that is, it can be from pregnancy, from childbirth, from the period after giving birth. 
Well, yes, now that you mention the period after giving birth, I've heard that some women also say that sometimes they go into depressions, in all that, and I don't - that I've never had as an orientation of that, to know what are the problems you have after giving birth, that you don't - I've never taken that, nor have they told me what are the-- 
Yes, in English it's called [foreign], isn't it, postpartum depression, after childbirth, which I think is common. 
Yes. 
But, they've never explained it to you, that is, you've heard it out there. 
Yes, but I haven't listened exactly right, right, what's happening to you, what's causing you to have it happen, what's causing you to have it happen, what's causing you to get sick or something, I don't know. 
And you think you've been through that during your other pregnancies? 
Well, maybe, now as I think, I say that with the first one yes. Yes, you kind of cry all the time, I don't know, like depressed, like you don't feel like doing anything. Yes. 
And you didn't know that was normal? 
No, that was--no. 
So it was something to look forward to. 
Yes. No, I didn't know. And now of this, of the second and of this third, I don't know well, well of that but I have a more or less idea. 
How did you find out from your friends? 
Yes, because of the friends who say that later there are women who do that to them. Sometimes they say that they haven't felt anything of that, or there are some that say yes, that they spend it sometimes crying, no, they don't say it. 
And you have good--? You seem to have several friends, don't you? 
Well, not so many, they're simply known for the same reason that even where I come from, sometimes there are little fences around here. 
And where are you from? 
I'm from Guanajuato. 
Mexico. 
Yes, from San Miguel de Allende. 
Oh, right. 
Yes [laughs], I come from there. And here nearby there are also more known. 
More of those [inaudible] people. 
Yes, from that same 
My mom really wants to go to San Miguel de Allende, she doesn't know how she wants to go but she doesn't know how. Until the other day she told me that she really wants to go. 
Yes, I'm from San Miguel de Allende. 
It must be a very nice town. 
Well, yes, I really do. Not because I'm from there, but it's very nice. 
Like colonial, right? 
Yeah, well, there are a lot of people walking in the streets, like that. That's where the churches are, the parish. Yes [laughs]. 
Let me see, I have several questions. I mean, we're about to end, but one thing, if you could change anything about your experience during this pregnancy, what would you change about your medical care? Or your insurance, what would you change? 
What would I change? 
Mm-hmm. 
No, I wouldn't know. No, I wouldn't know how-- it's what I tell you, I'm so calm, at ease. Well, maybe what I would change is the distance, that it wouldn't be very--well, that it's not very withdrawn but yes, that it would be a little closer. Because sometimes I say to him, I have to leave with more time to be able to arrive and so I am in a hurry and everything. And I also do my appointments, which I have, when I leave the doctor sometimes--for the same reason, I take them early so I can be here in time to catch my children, as I don't have someone to catch them, because I have to be a little longer with time to be here with them. 
You have to plan very well. 
Yes, the schedule, everything to know, I want to do, come, go and come, to be ready. 
Okay. 
Yes. 
And the best part of your attention? In other words, the part that you like most of the attention you have received. 
That even that the doctor has behaved well. In other words, that I tell her to make a distasteful gesture or that you tell her something and she doesn't take you into account, no. Everything has been fine. 
Okay. 
Yeah, I really like how-- 
How he treats you. 
Yeah, then she--what I say to her, she pays all the attention, she pays attention to what I say to her, and she already tries to explain to me, "Look, do it like that, and that's how it goes," but no. 
Okay, that is, it does explain things to her. 
Yes, she does explain to me, she listens to me, that is, she listens to me when I ask her something, yes. 
Okay, and is there anything else that you think is important for me to know about your experiences or thoughts? 
Well, no. 
Okay. So, I'm going to ask a few more questions, these help us understand more about you, and remember that you're free not to answer any questions you don't want. Do you have a paid job? 
No. 
What is your last grade of education or how far did you go with your education? 
Well, here they really are and I know, because when I was in Mexico I studied, until--just until the second year of high school, then I came here, and I entered High School and I didn't finish it here either, because my father died and my mother returned us to Mexico and then here I didn't finish High School, in other words, I don't know-- here in high school I arrived until the ninth grade, the tenth grade, the ninth, I don't remember well. 
First or second. 
Yes, and no, really here now--that is, because then they ask me, "up to what grade did you study?", but I don't know if-- well, since I never finished school in Mexico, nor did I finish it here, well, I didn't even know what-- 
And you were in high school when you came from Mexico. 
Yes. 
And then your mom went back to Mexico, when your dad died? 
Yes, and when my father passed away she returned us again to Mexico, and until now when I married my husband, then when I came back here again. 
You came back, like you did one or two years of high school here and then you came back. 
Yes. 
And then you remarried. 
And yes. 
Okay, it's hard, isn't it, because you've moved a lot. 
Yes, he went up and down, from here to there, from there to here, yes. 
Okay, and do you use the Internet? 
Yes, not always, but once in a while, but yes. 
And do you have access at home? 
Yes, I do now. 
What about the computer or just the cell phone? 
The cell phone. 
Okay, perfect. And what was your family's total annual income in 2018, roughly gross? 
Son, that's what I wouldn't know how to tell you, because I tell you, my husband is the one who works, he knows how to pay, how to make payments here, everything, phone, everything, electricity, water, he's the only one, he's not telling me, in other words, how much he earns or how much he got, simply-- 
Do you know approximately how much that would be? 
No, it's just that I really don't know, I don't have the slightest idea. 
No? 
No. 
Okay, and could you calculate it by the month, how do you have an idea more or less by the month? 
Per month, no, I tell you, of that yes no - of his income, no. 
Okay, it's not something you guys talk about. 
No, no. 
And what does he do? 
He's--he works in a truck, in a company where it's stone, they load stone, there. 
Okay. [Chuckles] 
Yes. 
The one who drives the truck. 
Yes, he drives the company changeover. 
To move the stone. 
Yes. 
Okay, and how many people including you depends on your income? 
My husband's income? 
Yes. 
Just me and my two children. 
Okay. Sometimes there are other people, that is, they send money to relatives or have other children. 
No, just the three of us. 
Okay, and in what country were you born? 
In Mexico. 
Perfect. And you're an illegal immigrant, right? 
Yes. 
For the moment that's it. I'm going to explain a little bit of the notebook. So, this notebook is in case things happen during this time we don't see each other. So, it is to give him the opportunity to think and document his daily experiences or when he can. And here are some ideas, your experience getting care, any barriers you've had, how you've adapted to the impending pregnancy or motherhood, your health needs, type of care, concerns, sources of information. You can say, "I saw my doctor," "Today I went," such a thing, "During the visit I felt happy or bad," or whatever, "I wish we had talked--", "I wish we had talked," I don't know if it's okay [laughs], but "I wish we had talked," or that we had talked about such things. So, just in case something comes to mind, because we're not going to see each other until about a month after the [inaudible], more or less. I mark him as in November to see how everything goes, and if anything happens like "Oh well". And if not, don't worry that sometimes they have things to do and all that. 
No, that's fine. 
Okay, anything else? So how many pregnant do we have when did the coverage begin? When was the first time you went to do the ultrasound? 
On my second appointment. The doctor gave me an ultrasound. 
Okay. 
Yes. 
That was like March. 
Yes, like in March. 
And do you know how long you're going to have [foreign]? 
Yes, if I'm not mistaken, if they gave it to me on March 1--I was told that coverage began on March 1, then I imagine that until the next year of--I have coverage until after March--that's what confuses me, sometimes I don't quite understand the dates, but I have coverage for a year, and I don't remember well, well, if it was in March. 
What do you mean, March through March 2020? 
Yes. 
But they did give it a year. 
Yes, they gave me a year. 
I don't know, I don't have children. I didn't know if it was like a month after the--if it depended on childbirth or if it depended on the year. 
It's the year. 
They give it a year. 
Yes, they give me one year of coverage. If I want to qualify again, but that would be for the baby, for his check-ups, but not for me anymore. 
Did they explain to you that you can apply for your baby? 
Yes, after he is born, he still has coverage and year for his first appointments of his vaccines and all that, and already if one wants again--that is, they warn you that it is going to expire and they give you the option for if you want to renew your insurance again to cover the year again but it would only be for the baby. 
Okay. Don't ask, but do they speak Spanish when you call? 
Yes, you ask them to speak Spanish. Well, there at 211 they give you options, if you want to continue in English or Spanish, and you already choose that in Spanish. 
And they do explain everything in Spanish. 
Yes. 
Okay. All right, then, I think I'm going to turn this off. Thank you very much. 
No, you're welcome. To you. 